---
layout: post
title: "Bootcamp 1"
description: "First bootcamp of the Manchester Digital Apprenticeship. JavaScript and Unit Testing along with Communication and Collaboration skills."
date: 2016-10-01
tags: [apprenticeship]
comments: false
share: true
---

<h3>Day 1 - Tuesday 27th September</h3>

<h4>Morning</h4>

The first day of the bootcamp started with some short icebreakers, introducing ourselves to everyone and listening to a brief outline of how to expect the bootcamp to go, and what experience to have gained by the end. Once the icebreakers were done a short exercise on communication took place, where a short story was read out and then 10 true or false questions were asked at the end, sounds much easier than it was with everyone being caught out a few times and answering a question incorrectly, this exercise showed me that despite thinking I’m a good listener, in practice I actually miss quite a lot of information which could be important, definitely something I plan to improve and spend more time listening to the little details. Once this exercise had finished we had a short break which I spent talking to other apprentices in order to get to know them.

After the break, we started the first kata of the bootcamp. Being the first kata it was relatively simple and consisted of 6 tasks which we needed to solve in order to implement a basic shopping cart system. In this kata, we used pairing which I found to be an effective system to development, as each person gets a turn driving and navigating. When driving I enjoyed actually writing the code and seeing my logic actually working, and when navigating it was useful to look ahead to see if there are any potential problems with the way the driver is implementing the system, as well as suggesting ways in which we could solve a problem. Pairing was also useful as it gave me a chance to listen and see other people’s perspectives on how to go about solving a problem, I learned quite a lot because of this as sometimes my initial thought of how to tackle a problem was not the most efficient. In this kata, we would change pairs every 15 minutes in order to get a wide range of ideas and methods of implementation. 

When the kata finished we immediately had a session similar to a retrospective, where everyone would think of some things which went well, some things which went poorly and some ideas on how to improve it for next time. I feel the retrospective went well and was actually quite useful, as many people contributed giving ideas for how to improve it for the next kata, something everyone clearly took on board in the next kata.

Once the retrospective had finished it was time for lunch where food was brought in and we were given time to relax and reflect on the morning.

<h4>Afternoon</h4>

The afternoon kicked off with the second kata, this time with a focus on testing the code each time it was completed, it was the same kata in the morning and because of this, we completed it much quicker. After each problem was solved we would test the code to ensure the intended functionality was implemented correctly. After we had finished this kata there was a short ‘debrief’ where we talked about why we did what we did, what we were meant to learn and what we will be doing in the next day’s katas. After this, we had another short break which again I spent talking to the other apprentices.

After the break, there was a session on personal branding, where, in groups, we chose someone we thought was a good role model and listed qualities which we thought they possessed. Once we had listened to every group's choice and why they thought they were a good role model, it was time to think of ourselves and what qualities we possess or want to possess in order to convey a positive personal image. We were sent away after this session with some questions to fill out about ourselves, where we thought we came on a scale of some personal qualities.

Finally there was a reflection on the day as a whole, ran similarly to a retrospective but people would just voice their thoughts without writing anything down. I left the day tired but excited for the next day.

<h3>Day 2 - Wednesday 28th September</h3>

<h4>Morning</h4>

Day 2 kicked off with a stand-up, where everyone would talk about what they did yesterday and what they are going to be doing, and looking forward to doing today; this was relatively short as everyone had been doing the same thing the day before and so most responses were similar.

After the stand-up it was time for the third kata, this ran until lunch and included an introduction to TDD (Test-Driven Development). Using pairing like in the previous katas, we were given tests which initially fail, it was our job to make these tests pass by editing the code. Developing a program this way was interesting as in some ways it made the process easier, we were not thinking about the overall solution we were just writing code to make the test pass. As each test passed it became clearer and clearer how everything is going to link together, and once all of the tests were passing the program worked as intended. TDD helped develop a solution in a much more structured way, where I knew exactly what feature was being worked out.

Lunch was spent talking to the other apprentices again and asking how they got on in the morning.

<h4>Afternoon</h4>

In the afternoon we went back to doing a non-technical exercise talking about collaboration, different roles in the business and how they all interact with each other. We did an activity where each group or ‘team’ had to come up with a way to improve an online book store’s sales, I was a member of the marketing ‘team’. When we had a list of ideas the whole room voted on which idea we thought was the best, we came up with 4 ideas which we thought we should implement, the idea of implementing a machine learning system being the most popular. We then had to go around and each ‘department’ would say how many weeks it would take them to work on this system. Machine learning is a very complicated problem, and the development team said it would take them the whole 8 weeks to implement this, as a result the other ideas selected were no longer viable; this left some departments with nothing to do for the 8 weeks. It became quite clear how collaborating between departments was essential in order to work efficiently as a business, and to ensure everyone is working on something important to the business. We ended this session with a short reflection and then a break.

After the break was another non-technical exercise, this time with an introduction to user stories. We went through some examples of user stories and talked about how to write them, and then writing acceptance criteria for the stories. Having clear, concise user stories would definitely help when developing a product as you know exactly what the user wants, and you have the tests to carry out to ensure what you develop would be accepted.

We ended the day with another session reflecting on the day, and talking about what to expect on the final day of the bootcamp.

<h3>Day 3 - Thursday 29th September</h3>

Similar to day 2, day 3 started with a stand-up, talking about what we personally did the day before and how we found it, this was followed by another session on collaboration. In this session we had to come up with ideas which would help promote the Manchester Digital Apprenticeship scheme, we were specifically told to use active listening and to write down as many ideas as we could think of, without thinking of the viability of them, this would come later.

After this session, we had a short break and then got to work on writing user stories and acceptance tests, then using TTD in order to develop a solution and complete all of the user stories. This would be the final technical exercise of the bootcamp and as such was the biggest, taking the majority of the day to complete. During this exercise, we were allowed to write any user story we wanted, as long as we had acceptance criteria and could write a test for it. Half way through this task we stopped for lunch, which was short as most people wanted to continue working completing their stories. Once this exercise was over, we demonstrated to the room what we had developed and then moved on to a final, non-technical exercise.

The final exercise of the bootcamp was creating an action plan to carry out on returning to the workplace, going over workplace skills and giving ourselves a rating on specific skills. Once this was done, we had a short retrospective and talked about the whole three days. Overall everyone was happy with how things went, felt they learned a lot and were looking forward to the next bootcamp. 