---
layout: post
title: "Bootcamp 2"
description: "Second bootcamp of the Manchester Digital Apprenticeship. Team based project designing a chat app."
date: 2016-11-14
tags: [apprenticeship]
comments: false
share: true
---

<h3>Day 1 - Tuesday 8th November</h3>

<h4>Morning</h4>

Starting the day I was excited to find out how everyone has been finding their jobs and what projects they have been working on, and that’s exactly what we did. In pairs and small groups, we spent the first hour talking about our experiences at work, what projects we’ve been working on, and how we found the first month or two in work. Once we finished talking in our groups we fed back to the room, letting everyone know how we’ve found it. A common theme when listening to feedback was that the months in work had been challenging, in a good sense. Many people felt that they had the support they required and so were progressing at a good pace through their work, and any hurdles were quickly overcome. I’ve had a slightly different experience in the first few months, as initially, I was placed in a team working on a new internal tool which would have been used to help other teams ‘experiment’ with their releases. I found this quite difficult as I was tasked only with learning different concepts and not much practical work, the practical work I did get was significantly more difficult than the tutorials and material I was using. As a result of this, I moved to another team on the Friday before the bootcamp, it was, therefore, impossible for me to comment on how I felt in the new team, as I only had 2 days working with them.

After finishing listening to everyone’s experiences at work, we listened to a presentation on the history of Agile software development, with a brief overview of the waterfall model and why it doesn’t work. We had an exercise with coins to demonstrate how slow the waterfall model was in practice, and how much quicker Agile was. We then looked at different types of Agile development such as Scrum and Kanban, both of these practices predate the agile manifesto, however, both are known as types of agile software development.

After the presentation had concluded, we were told what the project would be that we were working on over the bootcamp, creating an online Chat App, using Firebase.

<h4>Afternoon</h4>

In the afternoon we got into our teams and started coding, I was working on front-end and so on the first day worked on a template web page for the ChatApp to sit, we made a lot of progress with this on the first day and almost completed it. During this time most people were having issues with getting Firebase working, our team included, so there was not much more we could do other than having the simple web page at this point.

<h3>Day 2 - Wednesday 9th November</h3>

<h4>All Day</h4>

Day 2 consisted completely of working on the project, on this day we got a lot of the core functionality of the project done, by the end of it being able to send messages using the Chat App, however we did not yet have a name attached to the messages, and they would not appear in time order. At the end of the day we had a retrospective, we identified things we wanted to stop, start, or continue

<h3>Day 3 - Thursday 10th November</h3>

<h4>Morning</h4>

On the morning of the final day, we made a lot of progress in completing the Chat App, completing a lot of stories way ahead of schedule, we finally had a fully working Chat App, being able to send our names and have them ordered by time. We then hit a hurdle with the styling, if too many messages were sent, it would be impossible to see the older messages, as there was no scroll function on the page.

<h4>Afternoon</h4>

After an hour or two of trying solutions which in theory should have worked, we hit a breakthrough and finally found what the problem was. We completed this just in time to finish and have a fully working Chat App, ready to showcase to the room. After watching two other teams showcase their WebApp, it was our turn. We showed it to the room and used one of the laptops as a server so everybody could connect and send their own message.

Once the showcase had finished it was time for reflecting on how the project went. We did this in our teams by having a retrospective, discussing what went well and what didn’t go too well over the few days. We then took a personality test, the idea being if we know how we are, we would understand how everyone is vastly different and responds differently to different situations, I found that interesting, however, a lot of the results were very vague and could be applied to almost anyone. Finally, we had a retrospective with all of the apprentices, saying how we think the bootcamp went in general.