---
layout: post
title: "Bootcamp 3"
description: "Third bootcamp of the Manchester Digital Apprenticeship. Team based challenge using the Google Design Sprint."
date: 2017-01-19
tags: [apprenticeship]
comments: false
share: true
---

The third boot camp was all about following the [Google Design Sprint](https://developers.google.com/design-sprint/) a 5-day process (shortened to 3) in which you understand a problem, brainstorm ideas, diverge on one idea, prototype, and finally validate it. We were placed in different teams and set a challenge by the different companies. My team got the AutoTrader challenge, to solve the problem of uncomfortable car buyers purchasing a car through AutoTrader. When we first found out what the challenge was we noted a few initial ideas down, then drafted a questionnaire to go and ask uncomfortable car buyers, to better understand why they felt the way they did about purchasing cars.

Once we had the feedback from uncomfortable car buyers, we had a better understanding of what needed to change in order for them to become more comfortable buying cars through the AutoTrader platform. We all then individually sketched some ideas we had, and then explained them to the group, after this, we all explained what our ideas were. We then each sketched our final ideas with more detail added to them, and then used a method called Zen Voting; we stuck our ideas up on the wall and went around placing a dot on any idea we liked and wanted to use, all in silence. When we had voted, we had a discussion on why we liked a certain concept, and then came up with one final concept we were going to prototype. Initially, a very rough prototype was taken to uncomfortable car buyers to try out, whilst the other half worked on improving the prototype to be a little more user-friendly. The uncomfortable car buyers gave valuable feedback about our prototype, and we went through 3 or 4 iterations before we had one ready for people to properly test and critique.

People from AutoTrader came to critique our prototypes, giving valuable feedback and suggestions for improvement, unfortunately as the Design Sprint was compressed to 3 days instead of 5, there was not a great deal of time to make large improvements, however, we did manage to make some tweaks. Finally, the prototypes were showcased to the whole apprentice cohort including trainers.